# Face-Recogntion-PyQtATTENDANCE SYSTEM USING FACE RECOGNITION             <br>    &nbsp  Today we will be making a futuristic attendance system that identifies people from their faces and automatically marks their presence.  It will also allow us to detect any intruders.  This face recognition technology is a form of non-intrusive biometric system and is used in many key-less entry systems in stores, offices and other places.<b> Applications : </b><br>       *  Face recognition makes it easier to track down burglars, thieves and trespassers. The technology is capable of analyzing the feed private and public CCTV camera networks.<br>      *  The technology is not limited to tracking down criminals. For instance, it could also make it easier to find missing children and seniors.<br>      *  Face recognition could make security checkpoints at airports less intrusive to passengers.<br>      *  The attendance app is also enabled with voice detection features and also can record body temperature and mask compliance. <br>       * The entire process is touchless, accurate and equipped with Geofencing capabilities. <br><br><b>FEATURES OF FACE RECOGNITION SYSTEM</b><br><br>   **  Fast face processing. Our biometric face recognition system performs fast and accurate detection of face in live video stream. The face on the current frame is detected in 0.07 sec. and then each face is processed in 0.13 sec. <br>   **  Live face detection. A conventional face identification system can be easily cheated by placing a photo of another person in front of a camera. Our face recognition system is able to prevent this kind of security breach by determining whether a face in a video stream belongs to a real human or is a photo <br>   **  Face image quality determination. A quality threshold can be used during face enrolment to ensure that only the best quality face template will be stored into database. <br>   **  Tolerance to face posture. Our face recognition system has certain tolerance to face posture that assures face enrolment convenience: rotation of a head can be up to 10 degrees from frontal in each direction (nodded up/down, rotated left/right, tilted left/right). <br>   **  Multiple samples of the same face. Biometric template record can contain multiple face samples belonging to the same person. These samples can be enrolled with different face postures and expressions, from different sources and in different time thus allowing to improve matching quality. <br>   **  Identification capability. Our system functions can be used in 1-to-1 matching (verification), as well as 1-to-many mode (identification). <br>   **  Fast face matching. The JUSTLOOK 3.2 face template matching algorithm compares 100,000 faces per second. <br>   **  Compact face features template. A face features template occupies only 2.3 Kilobytes, thus our applications can handle large face databases. <br> <br><b>IMPLEMENTING THE ATTENDANCE SYSTEM</b><br>1. Install Python and dependencies.  Follow this in the documentation.<br>2. Install OpenCV along with python wrappers.  Follow the guides for Windows and Linux.<br>3. Install numpy using pip install numpy<br>4. Install requests using pip install requests<br>```pip install dlib==19.18.0```<br>```pip install face-recognition```<br><br><b>TECHNOLOGIES USED : </b><br>1.  Python<br>2.  Face analysis<br>3.  Database<br>4.  Human identification at a distance (HID)<br>5.  3-dimensional recognition <br>6.  Thermal cameras <br><br><b>CONCLUSION </b><br>  &nbsp  Smart attendance management system is designed to solve the issues of existing manual systems. We have used face recognition concept to mark the attendance of student and make the system better. The system performs satisfactory in different poses and variations. In future this system need be improved because these system sometimes fails to recognize students from some distance, also we have some processing limitation, working with a system of high processing may  result even better performance of this system.